Initial Draft Proposal for a Community Coordination Hub (#1)
blaggacao/rfcs: rfcs/0000-community-coordination-hub.md

---
feature: community_coordination_hub
start-date: 2020-07-30
author: David Arnold <dar@xoe.solutions>
co-authors: (find a buddy later to help out with the RFC)
shepherd-team: (names, to be nominated and accepted by RFC steering committee)
shepherd-leader: (name to be appointed by RFC steering committee)
related-issues: (will contain links to implementation PRs)
---

# Summary
[summary]: #summary

Adopt goals, spirit, concept and execution of [`kubernetes/community`]
where it _does_ fit [us](https://nixos.org/).

[`kubernetes/community`]: https://github.com/kubernetes/community

# Motivation
[motivation]: #motivation

> We lack an optimum level of _empowerment_ on distinct vital aspects for
> the best [leverage](https://nav.al/least) on the available resources:

Reviewer: @blaggacao I forgot to review this section after [your encouragement](https://github.com/blaggacao/rfcs/pull/1#issuecomment-671574731), sorry :). As a start, this sentence is mostly well understood by me, so I think it's mostly fine, but I don't understand the end of it and the list that follows. I mean, how exactly "Efficient Management Processes" are a resource? I think this small change makes sense and is much better? I hope I got your point right:

```suggestion
We lack an optimum level of _empowerment_ on distinct vital aspects for
the best [leverage](https://nav.al/least). We don't have:
```

- Efficient Management Processes, that bias the whole community towards 
  _coordinated and optimal Resource Employment_.
- Organizational Structure, that enacts necesary degrees of _Division of Labor_ 
  and _Coordination_.
- Organizational Culture, that helps to overcome the complexity bias. ([KISS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/KISS_principle))

Analysis inspired by [New St.Gallen Managament Model].

> [New St.Gallen Managament Model]: https://cio-wiki.org/wiki/The_New_St._Gallen_Management_Model

Reviewer: Maybe it's not relevant to the PR? With all due respect for (whatever that is :)) the "New St.Gallen Managament Model", it's great that you give credit, but it could be mentioned in your PR's initial comment perhaps? Or our discourse thread? I'm not strongly opinionated but it's a sort of distraction IMO, just thinking out loud.

Author: I think you are right, it's not relevant at least in this section.

Created a Credits / School of Thoughts section at the bottom. I kind of like to encourage reader to dive into more deeply, yet as an afterthought.

# Detailed design
[design]: #detailed-design

A repository shall exist, named `NixOS/community`, which will act as central hub
for coordinating the community's efforts.

It shall comprehend, consolidate and showcase aspects of:

- Communication
  - Channels
  - Modes & Policies
- Governance
  - Processes
  - Structure
- Onboarding
  - Code Contributions
  - Community Engagement

It shall omit any technical subject about nix or code in general, other than
repository tooling.

To implement, myself, and anyone interested, will review https://github.com/kubernetes/community
to the smallest details.

Based on this review, we'll create a clean new repository at
`NixOS/community`, with what we considered was worth porting from
[Kubernetes' community portal](https://github.com/kubernetes/community).

As a general guideline for this review, we'd acknowledge the success
and impressive dynamics of the Kubernetes ecosystem.

> [viable system]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Viable_system_theory

Author: Not used.

## Brainstorm
[brainstorm]: #brainstorm

> This section exposes loose ideas of we might put into `NixOS/community` collected during

Reviewer: Awesome rephrasings overall!, but:

```suggestion
This section exposes loose ideas we might put into `NixOS/community` collected during
```

this RFC's review process.

- [Community Event Calender](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/events)

> - Explain and Support an Efficient Code Review Process

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Explain and Support an Efficient Code Review Process.
```

[New St.Gallen Managament Model]: https://cio-wiki.org/wiki/The_New_St._Gallen_Management_Model

# Detailed design
[design]: #detailed-design

A repository shall exist, named `NixOS/community`, which acts as central hub
for coordinating the community dynamics.

It shall comprehend, consolidate and showcase aspects of:

- Communication
  - Channels
  - Modes & Policies
- Governance
  - Processes
  - Structure
- Onboarding
  - Code Contributions
  - Community Engagement

It shall omit any technical subject about nix or code in general, other than
repository tooling.

To implement, a detailed review of https://github.com/kubernetes/community
shall be conducted as joint effort between the interested parties and as 
an Annex I to this RFC.

Based on this review, a clean repository shall be enacted implementing
such aspects considered worth porting to our community.

As a general guideline for this review, the vast success and impressive
dynamics of the kubernetes ecosystem shall be acknowledged not only as a
proof of concept, but as a very sucessfull and inspiring [viable system].

[viable system]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Viable_system_theory

# Brainstorm

> [brainstorm]: #brainstorm

Author: My opinion is that templates are the guidance to tell a convincing story. The convincing story needs to be inclusive. This purpose is best served by a place where we can compile wishes without putting too much of strain on the future implementer.

I chose to call it "brainstorm" in order to tag it's non-normative and open-end nature, since this is as to how I would identify it best. It shall be a place to ventilate ideas in an inclusive way.

This section exposes loose ideas that have sparked interest of commenters
in their order of submission. They shall be considered _optional_ material
during implementation, whereas implementors shall have the liberty to

> deliver a consistent experience as they see fit.

Author: Na, this section is really just to accommodate RFC feedback during the RFC process itself :wink: So if you, for example, say you'd like to have a central guidline on speech and style, we would add it here without making it a requirement for the implementation of this RFC.

> deliver a consistent experience as they see fit.

Author: > Are you talking about whoever that comments on PRs at https://github.com/NixOS/rfcs/pulls ? 

Exactly, since RFCs are all about the process it's a good psycological trick to include clearely and markedly any feedback that is given. Feedbackers feel involved and might tend to agree more to a memento where they have contributed to (for as small as it might be).

However, since there might be many ideas coming in, mostly good ones. But still, we cannot cement or restrict the RFC-implementors choices at this time with a "wishlist". For ecample imppementors during implementation of this RFC might want to explore a different pathway, because they feel it simply makes more sense or produces better outcomes.

Hence, this section _cannot_ prescribe anything, but _can_ suggest it.

> What is "a consistent experience"?

It is a `NixOS/community` which might be better off in promoting it's intention by descarding some of the suggestions of this brainstorming section.

"Community Events" was a suggestion by @colemickens as to what we can coordinate within such repo, so I included it here.

Would you have a concise formulation which conveys this idea better?

> deliver a consistent experience as they see fit.

Author: We could say this is a `rec` in nix terms, it relates to the RFC itself :wink:

- [Community Event Calender](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/events)

> # Examples and Interactions

Author: Yeah, I didn't like the title either. It was from the template. I changed it to user stories and made the prose explicitly self-referncing to this RFC.

[examples-and-interactions]: #examples-and-interactions

## As a newcomer
As a newcomer, I'd be able to quickly find my way around, and start beeing
useful before beeing turned down by inconsistent and spread-out onboarding.

## As a veteran
As a veteran, I'd be able to promote some ideas, that I care about,
towards completion while suffering from less friction and overly complex
coordination. I can leverage my experience and skills more effectively
for the benefit of the community.

## As a mentor
As a mentor, I can _still_ \* maintain those high quality direct human

> interactions, while having full support of a _"curriculum-like"_ resource.

Author: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Curriculum - but it's not a "curriculum" (unless we inlcude a formal one). Such repo just can serve the same purpose. I hadn't a better way to express that I tried a few formulations and they didn't make the message clearer in my opinion. I inline-linked the wiki article for clarity.

\* _still_, as an aside, because nix community is known for it's great
mentorship spirit.

# Drawbacks
[drawbacks]: #drawbacks

There _can_ be a better solution to the achieve _optimum levels of empowerment_
for our community. We _could just **wait**_ for them to unveil themselves.

# Alternatives
[alternatives]: #alternatives

> - Benevolent Dictatorship

Reviewer: Link to https://discourse.nixos.org/t/what-would-you-do-if-you-were-the-bdfl-of-nix/6949 would be nice :).

> - Ephimeral Conversations (Discourse)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Ephemeral Conversations (Discourse)
```

The only current viable alternative for _coordination of resources and effort_
are ephimeral conversations in Discourse. While, they lend meaning to the 
individual's interpretations and views onto the ecosystem, they lack important
features such as:

- Structure
- Consolidation

> - Ability to act as _Reference_

Reviewer: Excellent :+1:

A portal page might at first sight seem like an alternative, especially for those
features. But, _optimum empowerment_ requires low barriers to interaction and
amendment. Hence a git repository. Repository tooling can complement this aspect
and deploy a static page under the nixos.org for a design lift on the content.

> 

Reviewer: I have another alternative: Move our code infrastructure to a code review system which supports a TODO lists sort of feature, It's a pretty bad alternative I guess, and using both or only it for code review will probably lead to bikeshedding. I'm sure you'll line it up better then me :).

Author: What do you mean by this? I rephrased the paragraph since I suspect it was misunderstood.

This is essentially a hedging paragraph to show that the alternative of a portal page has been more closely considered but discarded in favor of a version controlled repository medium.

Reviewer: > What do you mean by this?

I mean that a different code review system might offer features we lack in our community - features that your proposal does offer. If you'd like this part to hedge, my alternative shouldn't be important enough to mention here.

Author: Do you mean that we could track PRs and code reviews in this repository?

I think I can see where you're aiming at in any case. Maybe we should add your suggestion to the brainstorming section?

- "Explain and Support an Efficient Code Review Process"

That's definitly something that the proposed `NixOS/community` should provide!

Is that a teleological interpretation of your feedback?

Author: Note, that in my beleive, a temporary Working Group would gather in order to tackle the code rebiew process. I would guess you'd personally be very interested to be part of such Working Group. Probably, me too, since I'm trying to improve/consolidate PR templates and `nix-review`...

Such working group would then put their conclusions and guidlines in this repo for reference.

# Unresolved questions
[unresolved]: #unresolved-questions

> Is this the right level of abstraction to act as an enabling RFC for future

Reviewer: "enabling RFC"?

Author: a RFC that enables and triggers future improvement without bringing it about itself. Is there a better wording?

https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/enabler

Reviewer: Wasn't familiar with this word :).

improvements and thereby resume the author's stance in a way that effects
the highest leverage over time?

# Future work
[future]: #future-work

- Constitution of Woring Groups, such as (examplifications):
  - WG Contribution Workflows
  - WG Onboarding
- Constitution of Special Interest Groups (examplifications):
  - SIG Rust
  - SIG Security
  - SIG Golang
  - SIG Python
  - SIG Contributor Experience
  - SIG Command Line Interface "nix 2.0"
  - SIG Tooling & Automation
  - SIG Testing & Infrastructure
- Constitution of User Groups (examplifications):
  - UG NixOS

>   - UG Flakes

Reviewer: Sounds awesome.

> (those are way too many, of course)

Reviewer: Why? :)

Author: It's not the purpose of this RFC to establish consensus on possible future actions. So those are just envelop hedging words.

Author: I attenuated so as not to make it a stance.

Reviewer: :+1:.

---
feature: community_coordination_hub
start-date: 2020-07-30
author: David Arnold <dar@xoe.solutions>
co-authors: (find a buddy later to help out with the RFC)
shepherd-team: (names, to be nominated and accepted by RFC steering committee)
shepherd-leader: (name to be appointed by RFC steering committee)
related-issues: (will contain links to implementation PRs)
---

# Summary
[summary]: #summary

Adopt goals, spirit, concept and execution of [`kubernetes/community`]
where it _does_ fit [us](https://nixos.org/).

[`kubernetes/community`]: https://github.com/kubernetes/community

# Motivation
[motivation]: #motivation

We lack an optimum level of _empowerment_ on distinct vital aspects for

> the best [leverage](nav.al/least) on the available resources:

Reviewer 2: Nit:

```suggestion
the best [leverage](https://nav.al/least) on the available resources:
```

All links should have `http(s)://`, otherwise, GitHub treats them as relative paths. (e.g., this leads to https://github.com/blaggacao/rfcs/blob/91fd78bae499fca41235386be01a419cfaa6f016/rfcs/nav.al/least)

Author: Oh Thank!

- Governance
  - Processes
  - Structure
- Onboarding
  - Code Contributions
  - Community Engagement

It shall omit any technical subject about nix or code in general, other than
repository tooling.

To implement, a detailed review of https://github.com/kubernetes/community
shall be conducted as joint effort between the interested parties and as 
an Annex I to this RFC.

Based on this review, a clean repository shall be enacted implementing
such aspects considered worth porting to our community.

As a general guideline for this review, the vast success and impressive
dynamics of the kubernetes ecosystem shall be acknowledged not only as a
proof of concept, but as a very sucessfull and inspiring [viable system].

[viable system]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Viable_system_theory

## Brainstorm
[brainstorm]: #brainstorm

This section exposes loose ideas that have sparked interest of RFC commenters
in their order of submission. They shall be considered _optional_ material
during implementation, whereas implementors shall have the liberty to
deliver a consistent experience as they see fit.

- [Community Event Calender](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/events)

> # User Stories

Author: This is actually not intended to be an attribute of Detailed Design, but of the RFC itself.

"Future reality if the RFC" is implemented, not if the "Detailed Design" is implemented.

If you feel I'm wrong with this attribution, let me know. Going to resolve for now.

[user-stories]: #user-stories

> If this RFC is implemented ...

Author: I'm not sure if your proposal is what I actually want to express...

I want to expose tales of future reality 
(after this RFC is implemented) through use of a free interpretation and adaption of the user story style/format.

I chose to use this format, as it helps the reader adopt the main different viewpoints and perspectives on the subject more easily.

I identified three perspectives:
- Newcomer
- Veteran
- Mentor

There might be more high level distinct perspevtives. And if we identify one, we should add it.

I chose user stories as title because they are a well known concept in the software world and - I think - convey the concept of perspectives quite readily.

If they don't (or harshlu convey other intepretations we don't want to deliver) we might change the title to something like 

- "Future Reality"
- "Adoption Perspectives"

Out of those, I'd tend to "future reality" it's intuitive, tells the story, triggers curiousity and can be easily interpreted in the context of the section's subtitles.

I prefer a non-context free title in the TOC as tocs rhemselves read as a story (or at least that's how I'd want to consume them).

> If this RFC is implemented ...

Author: I stuck to User Stories (of the RFC - implemented) in the end.

> ## As a newcomer

Author: Same as super-title...

As a newcomer, I'd be able to quickly find my way around, and start beeing
useful before beeing turned down by inconsistent and spread-out onboarding.

> ## As a veteran

Author: Same as super-title...

As a veteran, I'd be able to promote some ideas, that I care about,
towards completion while suffering from less friction and overly complex
coordination. I can leverage my experience and skills more effectively
for the benefit of the community.

> ## As a mentor

Author: Same as super-title...

As a mentor, I can _still_ \* maintain those high quality direct human
interactions, while having full support of a

> _"[curriculum](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Curriculum)-like"_ resource.

Reviewer: Perhaps there could be better wording for this? TBH I'm still not sure I get the idea.

Author: Is there a wording you would suggest?

The idea is a teacher having a curriculum as oposed to a teacher not having a curriculum. (I don't think teachera without curriculum exist in schooles of western countries).

Reviewer: Please unresolve this @blaggacao . My problem is that I don't understand a what's a "curriculum like resource", although I understand what's a curriculum and (I think) I know what's a "resource".

Author: > As a mentor, I can inform my efforts with a clear and consistent reference, while maintaining those high quality human interactions, that NixOS community is known for.

- Efficient Management Processes, that bias the whole community towards 
  _coordinated and optimal Resource Employment_.
- Organizational Structure, that enacts necesary degrees of _Division of Labor_ 
  and _Coordination_.
- Organizational Culture, that helps to overcome the complexity bias. ([KISS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/KISS_principle))

Analysis inspired by [New St.Gallen Managament Model].

[New St.Gallen Managament Model]: https://cio-wiki.org/wiki/The_New_St._Gallen_Management_Model

# Detailed design
[design]: #detailed-design

A repository shall exist, named `NixOS/community`, which acts as central hub
for coordinating the community dynamics.

It shall comprehend, consolidate and showcase aspects of:

- Communication
  - Channels
  - Modes & Policies
- Governance
  - Processes
  - Structure
- Onboarding
  - Code Contributions
  - Community Engagement

It shall omit any technical subject about nix or code in general, other than
repository tooling.

To implement, a detailed review of https://github.com/kubernetes/community
shall be conducted as joint effort between the interested parties and as 
an Annex I to this RFC.

> Based on this review, a clean repository shall be enacted implementing
> such aspects considered worth porting to our community.

Reviewer: Again, KIS~S~

```suggestion
Based on this review, we'll create a clean new repository at
`NixOS/community`, with what we considered was worth porting from
[Kubernetes' community portal](https://github.com/kubernetes/community).
```

> As a general guideline for this review, the vast success and impressive
> dynamics of the kubernetes ecosystem shall be acknowledged not only as a
> proof of concept, but as a very sucessfull and inspiring [viable system].

Reviewer: @blaggacao again, I'd like not to wear you out, but I don't think we need to use high words such as "viable system" to express the idea. My philosophy is that good ideas are simple. So perhaps:

```suggestion
As a general guideline for this review, we'd acknowledge the success
and impressive dynamics of the Kubernetes ecosystem.
```

And don't get me wrong, I'm sure that people have put out a lot of research through out history to these fields. But, for the common being, practical and simple suggestions should sprout out of the research.

[viable system]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Viable_system_theory

## Brainstorm
[brainstorm]: #brainstorm

This section exposes loose ideas that have sparked interest of RFC commenters
during its review phase.

For implementers of this RFC, they shall be considered _optional_ and
explicitly not normative. Implementers of this RFC shall use their

> best judgment as to the initial repo structure and content.

Reviewer: @blaggacao I still don't get this section at all :sob:. Could you drop "implementers"? Also, if you are talking about _THIS_ RFC's process (IIRC), could you use `_this_` instead of `it's`?

Author: In the spirit of KISS / classic style, we might drop the paragraph. It's low on content and rich on details. It is somewhat innate that a brainstorm by no means as normative as is a specification.
